When was Jesus Christ born?
Many would answer December 25th.
On that date, Christmas is celebrated worldwide,
even in many non-Christian countries.
The Bible does not give an exact date for Jesus' birth,
but it does indicate something that would surprise many.
He was not born in the winter.
How do we know?
First, the Bible tells us that at the time of Jesus' birth,
shepherds were living out of doors
and keeping watch in the night over their flocks.
For much of the year,
shepherds in Bethlehem spent the night outside with their flocks,
but not during their cold, rainy,
occasionally snowy winter months.
Instead, in winter,
shepherds protected their flocks from the elements
by keeping them under shelter.
Second, the Bible tells us that around the time of Jesus' birth,
Caesar Augustus ordered a general census.
To comply with it,
Jesus' parents had to travel at least 110 kilometers
or 68 miles from Nazareth to Bethlehem.
It is unlikely that Augustus would order the Jews
who were already inclined to revolt
to make long trips in the harsh conditions of winter.
Third, the Bible points to a different time for Jesus' birth.
The book of Luke says that Jesus was baptized
and began his work at about 30 years of age,
and Daniel prophesied that Jesus' ministry
would last three and a half years.
Jesus died on the Passover in the spring
at 33 and a half years of age.
So his birth, 33 and a half years earlier,
would have been in autumn.
Thus, the Bible indicates that Jesus was born
not in winter, but in autumn.